[Music]
okay let's expand that mind of yours
what would you choose to survive what
would you do if one day they stuck you
in a casket and buried you alive to
escape you'd need to think outside the
box get it outside the box casket huh
never mind
have you ever wondered how you'd fare if
you were in a life-and-death situation
how's your knowledge of toxic gases did
you pay attention in chemistry class you
might want to review your periodic table
we've put together four scenarios to
test your survival skills are you ready
but before we test those skills remember
to click the subscribe button and turn
on notifications to be the first to
watch our videos okay now let's get
started
scenario number one swallowed by the
ground imagine that you're out enjoying
your day you're taking a hike down a
rocky mountain all by yourself all of a
sudden an earthquake shakes the ground
the earthquake causes a hole to open up
right under your feet and you punch down
ten feet how ulch
you pick yourself up and look at your
surroundings you are in a cave the rocks
are smooth and you can't climb back up
but there are two paths ahead of you and
you can see light shining through them
you start walking forward but wait up
you take a closer look at the paths and
see this you take a look down paths a
and see that it's full of snakes path B
is full of spiders unless you're a snake
lover you have a tough choice ahead of
you
studies from a university in Germany
have found that humans are hard-wired to
fear spiders and snakes from birth they
showed six-month-old babies pictures of
flowers and fish and then pictures of
snakes and spiders the baby's pupils
dilated in fear and stress when they
were shown the pictures of snakes and
spiders
so if babies have that fear response we
can empathize with you from where you
stand you can see a few features of a
snake it has a dark back and dark upper
head along its side are 15 to 25 round
pale blotches its eyes are so dark that
you can't see the pupils and it shakes
its tail at you one spider makes its way
out of the cave and you catch a glimpse
of it the spider is about an inch long
it's shiny black and it has a reddish
hourglass design on its belly you can't
be stuck there forever so you have to
decide which path to take we'll give you
15 seconds
[Music]
it's nice to be out of there if you
chose path a your correct path a has a
type of snake called a ball python ball
pythons are usually shy and non venomous
and they make great pets for snake
lovers path B is full of black widow
spiders Lea the black widow spider sends
approximately 2,500 people to the
hospital each year in the u.s. it's a
highly venomous spider and its bite
produces muscle cramping nausea and
paralysis of the diaphragm which makes
it difficult to breathe
we hope you chose well
number two bear encounter no you're not
naked or anything imagine you've been
getting your exercise by running on a
trail in a forest you got a good workout
and now you're headed back to your car
you can see your car in the distance
when you suddenly stop in your tracks
you notice that a nearby bear is looking
right at you and you just happen to
forget your bear spray bear encounters
can result in injuries to people or
their pets you've heard that if you
encounter a bear
you should play dead but then you
remember that it's only applicable if a
grizzly is attacking you and feels
threatened
well the bear isn't attacking you yet
but it is close to you and looking at
you you can see that your car is closed
and are unsure of how to handle the
situation so what would you do would you
run or walk to your car we'll give you
15 seconds to decide
if you chose to walk to your car you'd
be correct if you back up slowly the
bear is likely to leave you alone in a
real-life situation if a bear spots you
it's recommended that you talk calmly to
the bear so it can identify you as a
human bears have poor eyesight and they
might think you are prey if you don't
talk to them if you decided to run
that's only natural your runners
instinct might want to kick in but know
that you can't outrun a bear bears can
charge at 30 miles per hour and
Grizzlies can reach up to 35 miles per
hour most of us are not as speedy as the
fastest man in the world Usain Bolt who
can reach up to 27 miles per hour
running away can trigger an animal's
instinctual response to chase you number
three
lethal choices imagine that for some
nefarious reason a crazy scientist has
locked you in a room and is testing your
knowledge of lethal substances the only
way you'll get to leave is if you choose
the substance that is the least harmful
but beware that all the options you'll
face will be harmful you need to pick
the one that will do less damage than
the others and allow you to walk out of
there and get yourself to a doctor you
need to ingest one of the substances
orally which one would you pick here are
the options bottle one contains a solid
substance called tetrodotoxin bottle two
contains a substance called Botox you
might have heard of this one bottle
three contains a substance called BZ
we'll give you 15 seconds to decide hey
bottoms up
[Music]
if you're familiar with Botox you might
have chosen bottle to Botox or botulinum
toxin is one of the most poisonous
substances known to us it blocks nerve
activity in the muscles and it's lethal
when inhaled or ingested orally well
let's just put some of it in our face
shall we actually it does have some
positive qualities as it's commonly used
around the world for cosmetic purposes
and to treat painful muscle spasms
tetrodotoxin is an extremely potent
poison found in fish organs we can thank
the pufferfish for that this neurotoxin
can shut down nerve conduction between
the brain and body by blocking your
sodium channels a moderate dose can
paralyze the muscles you need to live
making it lethal
the right answer is bottle number three
bottle number three contains a substance
called BZ a non lethal substance that
can temporarily disable a person the
effect is achieved within 30 to 50
minutes so if you walk fast you'll be
able to call for help you better hurry
up
number four under the sea yah we in luck
here under the muck here under the sea
alright nobody remembers little mermaid
okay well imagine waking up to find
yourself in an underwater facility you
need to make your way back up to the
surface you're in a room with three
vials one vial will help you breathe
underwater and get back up to the
surface
the other two are lethal they are all
filled with gases that you can't see but
you can smell them you are being tested
on your knowledge of toxic gases here
are the options vial one has a gas that
is colorless and smells like rotten eggs
by L 2 contains a colorless gas smelling
slightly of garlic vial number three
contains a mixture of two gases the
combination is colorless and tasteless
and it doesn't have a smell keep in mind
that none of the vials contain pure
oxygen which vial would you pick we'll
give you 15 seconds to decide
[Music]
if you said vial number three you are
correct
vial number three contains Hydrox which
is a combination of hydrogen and oxygen
it is a breathing gas and since it is
commonly used for deep diving it will
help you get back up to the surface file
number one contains hydrogen sulfide
this is a highly flammable gas that
reduces the body's oxygen supply
damaging the nervous system and
paralyzes the respiratory system with
low concentrations you can experience
eye nose and throat irritation high
concentrations of this gas can make it
hard to breathe and cause an immediate
coma so this is bad right okay
vial number two contains RC a flammable
and poisonous gas people exposed to a
low or moderate dose of Arsene can
experience confusion fatigue or even
paralysis and loss of function so vials
number one and number two could have
been lethal so tell us did you survive
are you living to fight another day what
did you choose tell us in the comments
and don't forget to hit subscribe to
stay on the bright side of life
[Music]